# Reading Notes 9

## Functional Programming

1. Functional programming is where functions always return the same output. They can be used as variables, passed as arguments into other functions, and/or returned as values from other functions. It also encourages not modifying existing data, only creating new data that incorporates the desired changes. References: ChatGPT.
2. A function is pure if it always returns the same results when given the same arguments. It also cannot cause any observable side effects in order to be a pure function. I believe we know that the function is pure if it's not mutating an original value that's given to it, but instead returns a new value that makes the changes from our old value.
3. The benefits of a pure function are that it's easier to test.
4. Immutability is when something cannot be changed. In coding, this is, you cannot change the state after the data is created. (You can create new data with the changes).
5. From what I understand, referential transparency is when you know what the output of something is because when you put the same values in, the results will never change. [Medium.com](https://medium.com/the-renaissance-developer/concepts-of-functional-programming-in-javascript-6bc84220d2aa) says: if a function consistently yields the same result for the same input, it is referentially transparent. With the combination of both pure functions and immutable data, there is referential transparency.

## Nodejs - Modules and require()

1. Modules are essentially another JavaScript file.
2. The word 'require' is used to import data into a file.
3. We bring another module into our working file by using ``` require ```. For example, ``` const express = require('express') ```. Then inside the other file, we say put module.exports = whatever data we want available in our working file (a function, variable, object, etc.). Example: ``` module.exports = functionName ```.
4. To make a module available, we use module.exports and set that equal to whichever part of other code we want to make available (like in the example I put above).

## Things I want to know more about
