# Reading notes 2

## React lifecycle

1. Based on the lifecycle diagram, the render happens before the componentDidMount.
2. The very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React is the mounting which happens when an instance of a component is created and inserted into the DOM.
3. Order: constructor, render, componentDidMount, React Updates, componentWillUnmount.
4. componentDidMount happens after a component is mounted and is the method to use for loading anything using a network request or initializing the DOM. For example, connecting to the YouTube API.

## React State Vs Props

1. You pass things you would normally pass into a function into props (like arrays, variables, objects, etc).
2. Props are like arguments to a function, while state is inside a component. Props are passed into a component and are handled outside of the component. State is handled inside the component. Props are for displaying something in a component without hard-coding it. State is updating/re-rendering the application based on something the user has done. We we want to change something in our application, we store it in state. For example, we could pass in a counter variable to a component as a prop and then set state to that initial counter value and change it inside the component.
3. We re-render our application when the state changes. It re-renders that section of our application.
4. Things we could store in state are anything we want to change in our application. If we are handling information inside the component and inside that component only, then use state. An example is form data or the counter variable after it's passed into the component and it increases or decreases.

## Things I want to know more about

* I just don't understand the lifecycle thing that much right now but I probably will understand it more with time. I have questions right now, I just don't know exactly what they are.
