# Reading Notes 15

This topic is important because we will be learning and utiliing OAuth.

## What is OAuth

1. OAuth which stands for open authorization, enables third-party applications to sign in users to an application without disclosing their private information. So people can login to a site with their email and password and Google account or another kind of account.
2. For example, if you have a Google account, you can use the same login for the Google account to login to another application or a third-party website (like MongoDB for example).
3. It works using tokens. The site you login with provides an access token of proof of authentication of the user.
4. OpenID focuses on providing user authentication rather than authorization. They can use existing accounts to login to other websites or applications.

## Authorization vs Authentication flow

1. Authentication is verifiying a user to make sure who they say they are is valid, whereas authorization determines what a user can do based on their credentials I guess. So it's like getting permission to do something.
2. Authentication flow is when you exchange an authorization code for a token.
3. Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE) is a more secure way of doing Authentication flow. The proof key for code exchange is an extension that generates a random value that is called the code verifier. They hash the code verifier and then check it to make sure it matches the authorization code I think.
4. Implicit Flow with form post is an alternative to Authentication Code Clow.
5. Client Credentials Flow is used to access a token directly from the server without involving a user. It's used for when the application needs to access protected information but not for the user. Just for the application's own purposes.
6. Device Authorization Flow is just designed for devices that have a harder time getting input (like TVs for example) from people so they ask the user to go to a link they send to a different device.
7. Resource Owner Password Flow is a less secure way of authorizing users. They put their credentials into an interactive form (a username and password) and then those get sent to the server without hashing or anything I think so then sensitive information is being passed to the server.

## Things I want to know more about
