# Reading notes 14

This topic is important because the tech industry isn't very diverse right now, but it's important that we work to change that for representation, psycological safety, better products, better companies, a better society, and more. We can't change it if we don't know about it, so it's important to learn.

## What time women stopped coding (resource: <https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding>)

1. Women stopped coding when computers started showing up in lots of peoples' homes. The stuff people could do with computers (mostly just games) was almost entirely marketed to boys and men.
2. Males were playing games on computers growing up so then they knew a bit more about computers once they were older. Therefore, they had a bit of a headstart when learning about computers in school.

## Why diversity matters to your tech company (resource: <https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/columnist/2015/07/21/why-diversity-matters-your-tech-company/30419871/>)

1. Diversity efforts are most successful when the company leaders have an active and passionate goal of creating diversity in their workplaces. To do this, they have to know why diversity matters.
2. Diverse companies perform better because the diverse backgrounds bring diverse ways of problem-solving and new insights. This makes the company smarter, more creative, and able to offer more.
3. One example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base is by making products that work well for all ethnicities. This goes back to the racist soap dispenser problem where the soap dispensers only work for white people. If the soap dispenser company had a diverse workplace, they probably would not have ended up with this problem because the people creating the ideas for the dispenser's functionality wouldn't suggest something that works for only white peoples' skin (hopefully). Moreover, the testers of the product would be diverse so they would know if the product isn't working for darker skin.

## Things I want to know more about
