# Reading Notes 12

This topic is important for making our own CRUD applications because we will be utilizing error codes, ids and writing data to the database.

## Status Codes Based On REST Methods

1. 100's = informational status codes that give the user information about their request.
    2. 200's = Success status codes that tell the user their request has succeeded.
    3. 300's = Redirection status codes that tell the user the response they are expecting isn't available at that location anymore.
    4. 400's = Client error codes that tell the user something is wrong with their request.
    5. 500's = Server error codes that tells the user something is wrong with the request on the server's end.
2. The status code 202 means the request wasn't fully processed but it met all the validation requirements when it was sent. It is often used for asynchronous processing.
3. The status code 308 means the user should use a new URL because the one they are using won't work anymore.
4. I would use a 204 code if an update didn't return to a client.
5. I would use a 410 code for a resource that used to exist but no longer does.
6. The 'forbidden' status code is 403.

Resource: <https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/>

## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB

1. We need to put our MongoDB in a string inside our .env because it is sensitive access. We don't want unauthorized users directly writing to our database.
2. Middleware is a term commonly used in software development to describe a layer of software that sits between different components or systems, facilitating communication and providing additional functionality. It acts as a bridge, allowing different software components to interact with each other efficiently and effectively. Source: ChatGPT. "It's code that runs when the server gets a request but before it gets passed to your routes." ~ WebDevSimplified".
3. app.use(express.json) lets our server use json as a body. When a client sends a request with a JSON payload, such as a POST or PUT request with JSON data in the body, the express.json() middleware parses the JSON data and makes it accessible in the request.body property. Source: ChatGPT.
4. The /:id means that the parameter needs an id in a route.
5. PUT - updates the entire data and patch - updates only part of it.
6. To make a default value in a schema you add ``` default: <data-to-be-default> ``` in the schema for the particular value you want to have a default for.
7. A 500 error code status means there's an error with the server after the user makes their request.
8. Both 200 and 201 are success codes, but the 200 is the standard success code and 201 is the success code for a POST request when the data has changed.

## Things I want to know more about
